# Grant Template

## Project Description

### Benefits of State Channels in General

With *Chenilles* as with all State Channels:

- Two participants in a channel can send tokens to each other safely, cheaply,
  quickly and *privately*, scaling far beyond what Layer 1 supports.
- Participants can safely, cheaply, quickly, atomically and privately send
  fungible tokens along a circuit of State Channels of sufficient liquidity,
  in network such as the Bitcoin Lightning Network.

### Innovative Extra Benefits of *Chenilles* Network

Beyond what other State Channel networks do:

- The *Chenilles* Network enables participants to send tokens *across
  blockchains*, so you can send FIL and the recipient would get ETH, or vice
  versa.
- The *Chenilles* Network can potentially interoperate with any other State
  Channel Network, including the Bitcoin Lightning Network itself.
- *Chenilles* allows not just two participants, but tens of participants, on a
  same State Channel, as long as they all keep cooperating in a timely manner.
- *Chenilles* allows not just one kind of token (e.g. FIL, ETH or BTC) on a
  State Channel, but any number of token kinds including NFTs (e.g. FIL, some
  ERC20s and some ERC721s).
- *Chenilles* can scale not just payments, but arbitrary contracts, between
  its participants (e.g. swaps, futures, market making, insurance, auctions,
  poker games, etc.)
- *Chenilles* can multiplex many nested State Channels within an existing
  State Channel, such that many concurrent conditional transactions can be
  executed at the same time on a single State Channel.
- *Chenilles* allows contracts to be written once in a single language,
  *Glow*, that is safe, concise and portable, when other Networks require
  contracts to be written identically in two or three unsafe languages
  (e.g. Solidity, Go and JS for contracts on Celer) wherein any issue in any
  of the three variants and any discrepancy between them may cause asset loss.
- *Chenilles* with *Glow* will support compiling contracts to zk-SNARKs using
  Lurk, such that terms of the contract remain private even in case of timeout
  and non-cooperative exit from the State Channel.
- *Chenilles* enables use of blockchain-specific capabilities,
  such that State Channel contracts on the target Blockchain
  can do what other blockchains can’t do (or not as well).

### Value

The technical capabilities of *Chenilles* set it far ahead of current State
Channel technology. Therefore the value generated by adding liquidity to the
*Chenilles* Network will be vastly superior to that of adding it to existing
networks. By funding the development of *Chenilles* through a grant:

1. Filecoin will increase the scalability and privacy of transactions on the
   Filecoin network, thereby creating utility for Filecoin users, and
   increasing the value of the network and its token.
2. Filecoin will interoperate with other blockchains in a safe and efficient
   way, increasing the value both of Filecoin and of those other blockchains.
3. Filecoin will become an early adopter of the *Chenilles* network and of
   *Glow* and capture a larger part of their mindshare than the other
   blockchains that will only be supported later.
4. Filecoin will create synergies with Filecoin’s Lurk platform (that we at
   MuKn are also working on), wherein by combining a Lurk contract and a State
   Channel, the Lurk contract interactions can be made to scale whereas the
   contractual conditions attached to the State Channel will remain private
   even in case of non-cooperative exit.

The *Chenilles* network can be an extremely valuable addition to the Filecoin
ecosystem. At the same time, Filecoin can better foster the appearance of such
a network by funding this addition through a grant to a blockchain-agnostic
entity like MuKn than by building it in-house. Indeed, an entity tied to a
specific blockchain might cause some other blockchains to fear giving an
advantage to whichever rival appears as the leader, whereas a
blockchain-agnostic entity will reassure them that they will get a fair
treatment in a cross-chain network that benefits all participants.

## Deliverables

### Low-hanging Fruits in a Tall Tree

Our complete plan for *Chenilles* goes all the way from implementing single
State Channels to building a payment and smart-contract network that
interoperates with other State Channel networks such as the Bitcoin Lightning
Network, as well as a financial settlement system that leverages this
technical infrastructure. However, we divided this plan in shorter phases such
that each phase produces a deliverable that noticeably enhances the value of
the Filecoin network, with compounded effects as the deliverables build upon
each other. Thus, however far Filecoin is willing to fund this project, it
will reap super-linearly increasing benefits from its investment.

Filecoin does not have to commit to the entire plan initially. Morever,
however much Filecoin puts on the table, it will pay in monthly installments
and keep the option to terminate the project at any time (with one month
notice) should MuKn not demonstrate satisfactory progress. Nevertheless,
earmarking funds for a larger development will allow MuKn to staff the project
with a more stable permanent team that can be completely focused on the
project. An even larger earmark may also allow to parallelize those efforts
that can be parallelized, leading to earlier delivery of a complete product
than a trickle that can only afford a smaller team at a time.

Should Filecoin be only willing to fund part of the project at first, we can
complete the project later based on further grants from Filecoin after the
initial deliverables have been evaluated, or by finding investors who see the
financial potential of *Chenilles* as a cross-chain payment and smart-contract
network. However big or small the initial grant, discussions for further
funding would ideally start early enough that development could continue
uninterrupted, whether funded by grants or by investment.

## Grant Scope

Our proposal is for the development of an initial, working,
production-ready version. This initial version will be optimized for
simplicity of development and launching fast. Its code may not be the best
code for the long run; many obvious improvements may be possible.

## Explicitly Out of Scope

### Audit

Our initial proposal does not include an audit of our code,
either internal or external.

We recommend that our clients and users should conduct themselves
or fund a third party to conduct, an independent audit,
before blessing the code for production with large assets at stake.

If such an independent audit is conducted in a timely fashion,
we will integrate feedback from this audit
(including simple fixes to any security issue found) as part of this work.

### Maintenance

Our proposal does not include maintenance of the code after launch.

Maintenance covers fixing issues, adding features, improving performance,
reducing costs, improving usability, producing additional documentation, etc.

Separate contracts will be required for that additional work, if initial
customers are satisfied with the product being delivered.

### Productization of the Chenilles Network

We believe there is tremendous value in eventually completing and productizing
a complete version *Chenilles* Network.
Our [roadmap document](roadmap) describes all the steps required
for the Network to reach its full potential;
we also have a separate [Chenilles System Layer document](system) to detail
the steps required to stay ahead of attackers as the system grows.

## Bibliography

Refer to the [References and Bibliography section of the Whitepaper](https://chenilles-network.github.io/whitepaper#references-and-bibliography)

### Previous Proposals

These could be used as source of information to create new proposals,
but should not be listed in the bibliography of an actual grant proposal.

- [Laconic Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11OaY4ZTQCPx91cmiILCa26l-AH_GFYGLg58mpxi7Tkg/edit#heading=h.wp5qwyuxd9yw)
- [Tezos Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V88mWwKFQ-seJVR8E37rmDpCv1Ctar_PYs2tC0-5Vc0/edit#heading=h.wp5qwyuxd9yw)
- [Filecoin Proposal](https://github.com/filecoin-project/devgrants/issues/1449)
- [Mina Proposal](https://zkignite.minaprotocol.com/zkignite/dev4dev/funding/suggestion/585/detail)
